---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - The Contributor - Project Search
---


<p align="center"> <em> My preliminary open source project search, in the style of reality TV show <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Bachelor_(American_TV_series)"> The Bachelor</a>. </em> </p>
<p align="center"> <em> Also: Words with Friends and other weekly contributions </em> </p>

# theQuestion = "To Fork, or Not to Fork"

If you've never seen *The Bachelor*: 
* First, you probably aren't missing out on much. (I haven't either)
* Second, it is essentially a televised elimination-style competition drama show about several women vying to be the final choice as romantic interest for a bachelor. 
* Third, why am I mentioning a reality TV show in a blog about Open Source Development? For parody reasons, of course!

Introducting *The Contributor*, where one contributor (me) gets to know several Open Source projects to find the perfect match. Projects that stay in consideration get a fork instead of a rose, and the final project standing might just get (a contribution) proposed!

Before I list the projects and which candidates made it through the round, I want to note my own biases. Essentially all of the projects I looked at had codebases hosted on Github, because it is the software [forge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forge_(software)) I'm most familiar with. I feel as though I should make an effort to at least get slightly more acquainted with other sites, mainly [Gitlab](https://about.gitlab.com/). Also, though I am probably in the minority in this, lack of an explicit CODE OF CONDUCT document is not a deal breaker for me when considering a project. If I don't see any glaring issues when browsing a project's activity and discussions in issues/requests, I'm willing to take the benefit of the doubt and assume the community follows a general [golden rule](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golden_Rule) standard. I want to believe the open source community as a whole is more often good than not. Having the document is of course an important plus though, and very good practice in general. 

## Round 1: Welcomeness

* Origami.js
* Albert
* Electron
* The Fuck
* Hugo
* Manim
* Leaflet
* Memegen



# Peer-Reviewed Journals ?

I began editing some of my peers blogs, mostly making small grammar and wording changes.

# Back to the Map

I added several restaurants in the neighborhood around the Hunter dorms!

# Email SchmEmail

I have been working on the contribution to the openstreetmap website repo throughout this week, but am still waiting on a response :(.

---

</boubascript>
