---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Open Source Biology and You
---

<p align="center"> <em> Contributors are the Powerhouse of a <strike>Cell</strike> Project, </em> </p>
<p align="center"> <em> <a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/NaN"> NaN </a> out of 10 Programmers Recommend FLOSS, </em></p>
<p align="center"> <em> and Other <strike>Bad Puns</strike> <b>Facts</b> about FOSS Benefits </em> </p>

# Open Source Bio 101

## Syllabus

Welcome to Open Source Biology & Anatomy 101, a made-up course where I make as many analogies between FOSS projects and biological systems as possible. This fake course will consist solely of my thoughts for this week. (No homework, assignments, or exams &mdash; that would be too meta). 

*Disclaimer: The last time I took a biology course was junior year of high school* 

For some reason, the [Onion Model](http://www.compsci.hunter.cuny.edu/~sweiss/course_materials/csci395.86/slides/anatomy_project.html#3) of an Open Source community made me think of cells, and how the different essential parts of an open source project could be related to parts of a cell. Coordinating activities at the "center" are the founders, leadership, and/or [BDFL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benevolent_dictator_for_life), making up the nucleus of a project. Similar to how the cell membrane serves as a gate allowing things to move in and out, core contributors decide what code changes (which can be additions, deletions, and/or modifications) get approved. The issue tracker can be likened to the [Golgi Apparatus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golgi_apparatus), since it manages modification, organization, and transportation of features and code changes. Holding everything together in the cell is the cytoplasm, which in a project could be the users. Without them, the project can not really function or exist at all. Finally, general contributors are what keep a project active, so they are like the organelle we all so fondly remember from school as the powerhouse of the cell: the mitochondria.

This analogy definitely doesn't hold under close inspection, so hopefully no one who has actually studied biology reads it.

## [Mutualistic Symbiosis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutualism_(biology))

It is readily apparent that contributors are beneficial to open source projects. Contributors keep a project alive, active, and updated by discussing issues and making improvements/changes. However, every beneficial interaction from a contributor to a project has an equally benefical reaction from the project to the contributor. Besides the satisfaction of helping people and the basic case of improving open source software one already uses, working in Open Source benefits contributors by helping them become more well rounded professionally. This leads to an endless positive feedback loop, where projects make contributors better developers which in turn means better contributions to projects. 


# 4 Crazy Ways FOSS Benefits Your Life
#### (You Won't Believe #3!😮)

### Skills++

### Career.next()

### ping Network

### \<link rel="[preload](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Preloading_content)"> Benefits from Preparation \</link>


