---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Journey to the Center of Atom
---
<p align="center"> <em> The Contributor ends with a surprise twist!  </em> </p>
<p align="center"> <em> Also, the story of how I overheated my laptop running the same command 100+ times</em></p>

# A New Challenger Appears
## *Previously, on The Contributor ...*
> My project finalists are Gatsby, Visual Studio Code, and Electron. They're all welcoming, super active, promising projects where I can see myself making meaningful contributions.

## *And now, to the finale:*
The final semester project choice is .... *none of the above!* 

I may have left out the fact that the winner of *The Contributor* is a project that I can work on **with a team**. Though I may circle back to the projects mentioned in the previous weeks/episodes for my own personal contributions, the main project choice for this course also depends on input from my team members. Contributing to an open source project as a team changes the dynamic, since other developers' strengths, weaknesses, and interests must now be factored in. This shouldn't really come as a surprise though, given the inherent 'work together' nature of open source and the necessity of team work as a skill in tech in general. (It really should be titled *The Contributors*, but hindsight is always a clear solution. Perhaps a spinoff is due? ...) Balancing this [synthesis equation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chemical_reaction#Synthesis) of skill sets as we work toward producing substantial contributions is part of the fun!

## *The Team*: Move Over Fantastic Four, introducing the *Thorough Three*

I have the great opportunity to be teamed up with skilled developers and generally cool humans [Daniel](https://hunter-college-ossd-spr-2020.github.io/dmallia17-weekly/about/) and [Jessica](https://hunter-college-ossd-spr-2020.github.io/wongjessica-weekly/about/) for the semester. I'll be interchangeably referring to them using their English and Github usernames ([@dmallia17](https://github.com/dmallia17) and [@wongjessica](https://github.com/wongjessica)) from here on out. As project updates roll in each week, I encourage you to read their (very interesting) blog posts (if you haven't been already) to get their perspectives on the various issues we come across and project-related topics discussed.

## *(Indecisiveness)^3*

Even with all the benefits my team members brought, coming together only seemed to amplify individual indecisiveness when choosing a team project. To be fair, it *is* a semester long commitment and we wanted to be thorough when vetting potential choices. Unfortunately, this meant being the only team that hadn't made a choice by the end of class on Monday, March 2nd &mdash; a class for which the main objective was each team having a project selected. What we did have, instead, was a narrowed down short list of candidates: Django, Visual Studio Code, and Atom. I did suggest Electron later in the week, but it got naturally filtered out as a choice. 

## *The Meat of the Matter*

After several long discussions and many texts, that Friday we arrived at our final decision: Atom, the hackable text editor. I will mention that Atom is built using Electron (the science pun there writes itself).


# Attempting Nuclear Fusion (Building Atom from Source)

The Atom installation instructions seem veeery simple and straightforward, there are only 2 commands according to the manual. However, dependencies are a thing that exist and cause many headaches.

# The Periodic Table of Contributions
I haven't had much time to make other contributions this week, so instead I'll share my plans for upcoming contributions.

---
