---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - boubascript$ whoami
---

<p align="center"> <em> What if the <a href="https://hunter-college-ossd-spr-2020.github.io/boubascript-weekly/about/"> about page</a> had its own entire blog post? 🤔 </em> </p>
<p align="center"> <em> My skills, interests, and first ever open source contribution </em> </p>

# All About Me - Extended Cut [DLC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Downloadable_content)

Let's set the scene. Almost all of us have been there before: in a new classroom or classroom-adjacent environment, when an instructor makes some statement similar to "Let's go around the room and say our names and something we're interested in!". Dread. I shudder and instantly forget every single thing I have ever enjoyed in my entire life. Eventually I am next in the queue, and proceed to rattle off some basic, easy answer, eager to be away from attention.

Jokes aside, it is difficult sometimes to talk about my skills and interests on the spot. Though this blog post serves a *much* better purpose than those icebreakers we tolerated ( *Icebreaker? More like Icebreakmeoutofhere* ), in some ways it reminds me of them. Alas, being able to explain what useful skills I have and what I enjoy are essential life skills. Fortunately for you, dear reader, I have had a week to reflect on myself and consider these things (of which I used the weekend to actually think about it).

But before I get self-centered, a few words about a personal sponsor and outlet for some of my interests:

\<shamelessplug>
 
Check out [Hunter Open Source Club](https://hunterosc.org/) on [Facebook](http://fb.hunterosc.org/)! They run events and workshops for Hunter students to help gain exposure to tech, web development, coding, and CS at Hunter in general, using open source tools and philosophy wherever possible. 

\</shamelessplug>

## `boubascript$` [`cat`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cat_(Unix))` ~/.boubacar_skillz`
### "What do I bring to the FOSS table?"

* **Attention to Detail**
  * I'm not saying I read the entire terms and conditions every time I download software or anything like that, but most of the time I pay pretty close attention to the finer details of projects. I inspect webpages that are interesting, proofread my writing way too many times, and always try to find the most obscure edge cases for code. A good example of this is in [last week's post](https://hunter-college-ossd-spr-2020.github.io/boubascript-weekly/week02/#browser-steroids), where I noticed a difference between the tutorial for an add on and the video showing how to test it. This is very helpful when searching for bugs, and even more helpful when finding root causes for those bugs. Though I don't always catch typos *before* sending things out, I **definitely** always at least catch them right after.
* **Perseverance**
  * If it wasn't for this skill I honestly may have switched my major/career a while ago. In the face of the same exact error message for the 50th time, I will keep on pushing, trying new approaches, stepping back for perspective, googling, reading, and googling. I tend to stick with problems until they are solved, and solved for all cases (or as many as feasible). In terms of open source contributions, this will help when getting stuck on bugs or errors while trying to contribute code. Persevering through issues also ensures that I am thorough when explaining problems, or suggesting solutions or workarounds.
* **Pattern Recognition**
  * I think I can pretty quickly pick up on patterns in a codebase, such as styling and code/file organization, which means less trips to a `CONTRIBUTING.md` file while working on a project if I forget certain style standards. I can look for inconsistencies in code or documentation and use them to make contributions, helping keep projects organized and uniform. 
* **Programming && Web Development Experience**
  * My previous experience with web development will help me greatly when it comes to Javascript based FOSS projects. I have worked with the [React framework](https://reactjs.org/), [Express server](https://expressjs.com/), [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/), many other JavaScript frameworks/libraries, and several databases in the past, so I am familiar with the full stack ecosystem. I am also familiar with Python, C++, and bash (in that order), which would come in handy when dealing with other types of tools outside of web.
  
## `boubascript$` [`cat`](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cat_(Unix))` ~/.boubacar_interests`
### "Which FOSS tables am I bringing *it* to?"

* Tech
  * **Web Development Libraries and Tools** - I'm not going to be doing any less web development anytime soon, so any new/cool projects related to it would be useful and interesting to me.
  * **Algorithms/Math** - I like to mess around with different algorithmic problems from time to time in Python/C++ and I find some domains of math very intriguing, especially Discrete Mathematics.
  * **[Esoteric Programming Languages](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Esoteric_programming_language)** - Reading and learning about them is fun because they're so [interesting](https://esolangs.org/wiki/Whitespace), always [hilarious](https://esolangs.org/wiki/Chicken), and sometimes just [insane](https://esolangs.org/wiki/Brainfuck).
* Academic 
  * **Linguistics** - Spoken languages are just as cool as programming languages!
  * **Sociological Data** - I'm very interested in analyzing social interactions and relationships, and specifically looking at data and projects related to social inequalities.
  * **Arabic Language** - The morphology of the Arabic Language amazes me, and I also like learning about Arab culture.
* Art
  * **Poetry / Spoken Word** - I have immense respect for people who can craft words in beautiful ways, and hope to some day maybe create poetry worth performing.
  * **Origami** - I don't do it as much as I used to in middle school, but when I do, it is always as calming as I remember. For me, creating an origami object is almost like running a program and being the compiler instead of the developer (or sometimes both).
* **Education** - At my previous internship I worked on a team dedicated to creating accessible educational features for students, and accessible education has been crucial from the very beginning of my journey in tech. Projects that aim to make education easier and more available to all students can always catch my attention.
* **Memes** - This blog just wouldn't be true to me if I didn't include this. They're popular, they're funny, and their evolution over time says a lot about how we humans interact, both online and off.

Above all, I enjoy solving problems (or trying to). Anything I learn in the process of doing that is fascinating to me.

Brb, I'm realizing I should probably edit my about page.


# Contributions

I've made some edits to OpenStreetMap, including resolving a note from 5 years ago. I also edited a typo in the install instructions for the openstreetmap-website repo. I'm working on another [pull request](https://github.com/openstreetmap/openstreetmap-website/pull/2542) for the same repo, stay tuned!!
